DOCS-#3792, #2410: Improve "Getting Started" section [DEPRECATED] (#3898)
modin-project/modin: docs/getting_started/quickstart.rst

Getting Started
===================

.. note:: 
  | *Estimated Reading Time: 10 minutes*
  | You can follow along this tutorial in a Jupyter notebook `here <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/quickstart.ipynb>`_. 

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 4
    
    10-min Quickstart Guide <self>
    installation
    using_modin/using_modin
    why_modin/why_modin
    examples
    faq
    troubleshooting

.. meta::
    :description lang=en:
        Introduction to Modin.

Quick Start Guide
----------------

To install the most recent stable release for Modin run the following:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install modin[all] 

For further instructions on how to install Modin with conda or for specific platforms or engines, see our detailed `installation guide <../getting_started/installation.html>`_.

> Modin acts as a drop-in replacement for pandas so you can simply change a single line of import to speed up your pandas workflows. To use Modin, you simply have to replace the import of pandas with the import of Modin, as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modin acts as a drop-in replacement for pandas so you simply have to replace the import of pandas with the import of Modin as follows to speed up your pandas workflows:
```
Not super hung-up on this change, but these sentences can be combined into one.

.. code-block:: bash

  # import pandas as pd
  import modin.pandas as pd

Example: Instant Scalability with No Extra Effort
--------------------------------------------------

> When working on large datasets, pandas becomes painfully slow or `runs out of memory <../why_modin/out_of_core.html>`_. Modin automatically scales up your pandas workflows by parallelizing the dataframe operations, so that you can more effectively leverage the compute resources available.

Author: Fixed

  start = time.time()

  rounded_trip_distance_modin = big_modin_df["trip_distance"].apply(round)

  end = time.time()
  modin_duration = end - start
  print("Time to apply with Modin: {} seconds".format(round(modin_duration, 3)))

  print("Modin is {}x faster than pandas at `apply` on one column!".format(round(pandas_duration / modin_duration, 2)))

Modin is more than 30X faster at applying a single column of data, operating on 130+ million rows in a second.

Summary
--------

Hopefully, this tutorial demonstrated how Modin delivers significant speedup on pandas operations without the need for any extra effort. Throughout example, we moved from working with 100MBs of data to 20GBs of data all without having to change anything or manually optimize our code to achieve the level of scalable performance that Modin provides.

Note that in this quickstart example, we've only shown ``read_csv``, ``concat``, ``apply``, but these are not the only pandas operations that Modin optimizes for. In fact, Modin covers `more than 90\% of the pandas API <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/README.md#pandas-api-coverage>`, yielding considerable speedups for many common operations.

> Next, we discuss how Modin can be used locally on a single machine (e.g., your laptop!) and on a cluster setting.

Author: Removed this statement

Getting Started
===================

.. note:: 
  | *Estimated Reading Time: 10 minutes*

>   | You can follow along this tutorial in a Jupyter notebook `here <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/quickstart.ipynb>`_. 

Reviewer: Getting another "Page not found" here for me.

Author: Need to wait until PR is pulled in for notebook link to work

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 4
    
    installation
    using_modin/using_modin_locally
    using_modin/using_modin_cluster
    why_modin/pandas
    why_modin/out_of_core
    why_modin/modin_vs_dask
    examples
    faq
    troubleshooting

.. meta::
    :description lang=en:
        Introduction to Modin.

Quick Start Guide
----------------

To install the most recent stable release for Modin run the following:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install modin[all] 

For further instructions on how to install Modin with conda or for specific platforms or engines, see our detailed `installation guide <../getting_started/installation.html>`_.

Modin acts as a drop-in replacement for pandas so you can simply change a single line of import to speed up your pandas workflows. To use Modin, you simply have to replace the import of pandas with the import of Modin, as follows.

.. code-block:: bash

  # import pandas as pd
  import modin.pandas as pd

Example: Instant Scalability with No Extra Effort
--------------------------------------------------

> When working on large datasets, pandas becomes painfully slow or `runs out of memory <../why_modin/out_of_core.html>`_. Modin automatically scales up your pandas workflows by parallelizing the dataframe operations, so that you can more effectively leverage the compute resource available.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working on large datasets, pandas becomes painfully slow or `run out of memory <../why_modin/out_of_core.html>`_. Modin automatically scales up your pandas workflows by parallelizing the dataframe operations, so that you can more effectively leverage the compute resources available.

```

Author: incorporated

For the purpose of demonstration, we will load in modin as ``pd`` and pandas as ``old_pd``.

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd

>   import pandas as old_pd

Reviewer 2: As I remember we agreed to use just pandas, but not old_pd.

Author: Changed to `import pandas` and replaced `old_pd` throughout

.. code-block:: python

  start = time.time()
  rounded_trip_distance_pandas = big_pandas_df["trip_distance"].apply(round)

  end = time.time()
  pandas_duration = end - start
  print("Time to apply with pandas: {} seconds".format(round(pandas_duration, 3)))

.. code-block:: python
  
  start = time.time()

  rounded_trip_distance_modin = big_modin_df["trip_distance"].apply(round)

  end = time.time()
  modin_duration = end - start
  print("Time to apply with Modin: {} seconds".format(round(modin_duration, 3)))

  print("Modin is {}x faster than pandas at `apply` on one column!".format(round(pandas_duration / modin_duration, 2)))

Modin is more than 30X faster at applying a single column of data, operating on 130+ million rows in a second.

Summary
--------

Hopefully, this tutorial demonstrated how Modin delivers significant speedup on pandas operations without the need for any extra effort. Throughout example, we moved from working with 100MBs of data to 20GBs of data all without having to change anything or manually optimize our code to achieve the level of scalable performance that Modin provides.

> Note that in this quickstart example, we've only shown ``read_csv``, ``concat``, ``apply``, but these are not the only pandas operations that Modin optimizes for. In fact, Modin covers `more than 90\% of the pandas API <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/README.md#pandas-api-coverage>`, yielding considerable speedups for many common operations.

Reviewer: Might be useful to add this part of troubleshooting here too:
"If you would like to request a particular method be implemented, feel free to open an
issue. Before you open an issue please make sure that someone else has not already
requested that functionality."

Author: I would argue against adding this in the quickstart, given that we already have this in the FAQ section. The quickstart guide is aimed at showing the best of what Modin can do. If the user finds something is not implemented, they will find the FAQ page with the open request blurb.
